#Minishell

##Introduction
The shell is a program that interacts with the user through a terminal or takes the input from a file and executes a sequence of commands that are passed to the Operating System.

##Shell Programs
A shell program is an application that allows interacting with the computer. Here is a list of the most popular shell programs in UNIX:

`sh`	| Shell Program. The original shell program in UNIX.
--------|
`csh`	| C Shell. An improved version of sh.
--------|
`tcsh`	| A version of Csh that has line editing.
--------|
`ksh`	| Korn Shell. The father of all advanced shells.
--------|
`bash`	| The Gnu shell. Takes the best of all shell programs. It is currently the most common shell program.
--------|

## Parts of a Shell Program
The shell implementation is divided into three parts: The Parser, The Executor, and Shell Subsystems.

### The Parser
The Parser is the software component that reads the command line such as "ls -la" and puts it into a data structure called **Command Table** that will store the commands that will be executed.

### The Executor
The Executor will take the command table generated by the parser and for every SimpleCommand in the array it will create a new process (Pipes, Redirections if needed).

### Shell Subsystems
* Environment Variables: Expressions of the form $\{VAR\} are expanded with the corresponding environment variable. Also the shell should be able to set, expand and print environment vars.
* Wildcars: Arguments of the form a\*a are expanded to all the files that match them in the local directory and in multiple directories.
* Subshells: Arguments between \`\`(backticks) are executed and the output is sent as input to the shell.

### Using Lex and Yacc to implement the Parser
We use two UNIX tools to implement the parser: Lex and Yacc.
A parser is divided into two parts: a Lexical Analyzer or Lexer takes the input characters and puts the characters together into words called tokens, and a Parser that processes the tokens according to a grammar and build the command table.

### The Command Table
The **Command Table** is an array of **SimpleCommand** structs. A **SimpleCommand** struct contains members for the command and arguments of a single entry in the pipeline. The parser will look also at the command line and determine if there is any input or output redirection based on symbols present in the command (< infile, > outfile);


### Implementing the Lexical Analyzer
The Lexical analyzer separates input into tokens. It will read the characters one by one from the standard input and form a token that will be passed to the parser.
The parser takes the tokens generated by the lexical analyzer and checks if they follow the syntax correctly. While checking, the parser will execute actiones or pieces of C code that will be inserted between the grammar rules.

## Creating Processes in Your Shell
Start by creating a new process for each command in the pipeline and making the parent wait for the last command. This will allow running simple command such as "ls -la"
